So the next routing policy we're going to discuss is geo location routing so geo location routing is
used to serve traffic based on the geographic location of users.
So the location of the DNS queries come from.
So similar to when you're looking at latency based routing but slightly different in that you can lock
to a specific geographic region rather than using latency.
So you might want to use geo location routing if you need to localize content or present a Web site
in a specific language or you might want to use it to restrict distribution rights of content where
you only have distribution rights in a specific geographic region.
So you can lock down that distribution of that content to that specific region you can specify geographic
locations by continent country or even by state in the US.
So if you look at this diagram here what you can see is very similar to the other record sites we create
multiple entries for the same domain name.
And then we provide the values and then we lock down by geo location.
So we say for instance that if a user is coming from Singapore we're going to lock them to the geo location
region Singapore which is AP SD one.
If the user is coming from Oceana such as New Zealand.
Then that user gets sent to the region the Oceania region.
So and the local data center for that or the local region for that would be AP SD 2 in Sydney.
So you can then say well for everything else I'll have a default rule.
So someone starts querying from Mexico.
They might get sent a U.S. e one North Virginia.
So you typically have a default rule which means everyone goes to that specific location if they don't
fall within one of the other geographic areas and then you can lock down where users in other specific
locations around set free specifying their geo location in the record.
So let's go back and set up some of these records.
So first off let's start with the Singapore IP address and we're going to come in create a record set
and this one is gonna be called geo location and I'm going to put the IP address in and didn't copy
so let's just go back and try that again.
So we put the IP address and we're just going to go down to geo location and so now you can see continents
and then you can see countries.
So what I just want to do is I'm just going to search and we've got Singapore here and you can associate
it with a health check.
So I kids associate this with the Singapore health check and can I need to put in the I.D. Singapore
Geo and it's click on Create.
So we've got that record.
Now let's go back and get our North Virginia record and this is the one that I wanted to lock down as
the to open really as the default record.
So I've got geo location and I'm going to put the IP address in specified geo location and this time
that's the default option.
So let's set default.
And I'm just going to default and the again I can select a health check if I like
and then for the last one we're going to use our load balancer.
So let's just go and put geo location and change to an alias and choose our low balancer and we can
choose geo location.
Now notice in our next line we're gonna be talking about multi value art.
So that's great out because you can't do that with a load balancer.
So let's go down now and for this one I want to put in I could put Australia but in this case I want
to have a broader reach.
So I want to cover people in New Zealand for instance and other parts of Oceania so I can put it Oceania
and let's just give it a satellite day.
And again I can associate this with a health check.
Well that's target health so that's for the low balance so I don't need that here.
So let's just change to Sydney Alby and click on Create.
So we've got our free record sites.
Now I'm in Sydney so I'm going to just go to a command prompt so I'm at a command prompt now and I'm
going to type dig geo location DCT maps dot com and hit enter and let's say now I get those two records
that I know is associated with my local load balancer.
So I'm just gonna go back here and on another screen.
I'm gonna go back and I'm going to connect to let's say I can connect to Canada or again I'm back at
the command prompt with an IP address in Canada and let's it take geo location or DCT labs dot com and
I've got a response and I realized that I actually got the.
I think I copied the wrong address there so let's what we should have is the North Virginia record.
So let's go back and sure enough for the North Virginia one I just need to replace that IP address and
I can save the record set and I'm just gonna have to wait for the TTL to expire and then I'll renew
again.
So I'm back at the command prompt the TTL should have expired now.
So let's just run that they command again and sure enough now we get the North Virginia IP address so
the other thing to test now is I'm going to disconnect from Norfolk Virginia excuse me from Canada which
was obviously the got picked up as the default rule which connected me to North Virginia.
So now let's just connect to Singapore so I'm now connected to Singapore and if I run the day command
again course I'm going to get the updated address.
So I've changed locations and it's given me a new TTL and it's given me the 72 address which corresponds
with Singapore so that's if a geo location routing you should look out for questions that talk about
locking down distribution of content localizing web pages or serving Web pages in different languages
that kind of thing.
That's the type of language you might see that would push you towards using a geo location routing policy
whereas with the latency one it be more around performance and ensuring that users get the best use
of experience.